THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
GOOD EVENING.
IT IS 4:00 P.M. ON OCTOBER 16TH
WEDNESDAY I'D LIKE TO GO AHEAD
AND CALL THIS MEETING TO ORDER
FOR THE NARBERTH COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES.
APPRECIATE EVERYONE BEING WITH
ME JUST TO LET EVERYBODY KNOW
THIS MEETING WILL BE BROADCAST
LIVE ON CABLE CABLE CHANNEL 16
AT CHANNEL 19 AND ONLINE AT
EIGHT TO GO AGAIN WATCH FOR
THOSE OF YOU WHO WANT TO SPEAK
IN PUBLIC COMMENT PLEASE CALL
TOLL FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO FOUR
SEVEN OR EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT
SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO
NINE NINE AND INTERMEETING AND
NINE ONE NINE EIGHT SIX SEVEN
THREE ONE FOUR FIVE FIVE.
WITH THAT I WOULD LIKE TO DO
ROLL.
SO KENNEDY IF YOU DON'T MIND
DOING THE ROLL CALL AND WHEN
KENNEDY DOES CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS THAT COULD JUST
UNMUTED STATE YOUR NAME AND
WHERE YOU'RE COMING FROM TODAY
,THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
HERE WE GO.
WE FIRST HEALTH CARE DAMON
OF COURSE.
HELLO EVERYONE AND GOOD
AFTERNOON.
MY NAME IS ZACH DAMON.
>> I'M COMING TO YOU FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
WASHTENAW COUNTY.
>> NEXT WE HAVE VICE CHAIR
JERKILY VICE CHAIR KEELER AND
I'M COMING TO YOU FROM MY
RECLINER OVER TO MUSIC.
GOOD AFTERNOON EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS KATHLEEN MOZELIAK
AND I AM CALLING IN FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER SOLOMON
AFTER SOLOMON COMMISSIONER ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER HAWKINS
.
>> COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE
COMMISSIONER RACKLEY HIGH
COMMISSIONER RATCLIFFE CALLING
FROM ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
CHAMBERS.
THIS IS BLAENAU CHAMBERS
CALLING FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
PACARD COMMISSIONER PACKARD
COMING TO YOU FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
BEWES.
>> HI, LORI CALLING COMMAND
COMMISSIONER INGOMAR AND
COUNCIL MEMBER GUTSIER.
>> HI EVERYONE IN COUNCIL
MEMBER EDWYN COMING TO YOU FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT IS OUR REAL CALL.
THANK IS SO MUCH KENNEDY.
I DO APPRECIATE IT.
WE NOW MOVE TO THE PUBLIC
COMMENT SECTION OF THE AGENDA
FOR TODAY JUST A REMINDER,
ANYONE WHO DOES COME ON FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT TODAY YOU WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT.
>> KENNEDY DO WE HAVE ANYBODY
ON FOR PUBLIC COMMENT THIS
AFTERNOON?
APPARENTLY AT THIS TIME I SEE
NO ONE ON FOR PUBLIC.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE TO THE
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
ALL OF US ON THE COMMISSION
SHOULD HAVE RECEIVED A COPY
OF TODAY'S AGENDA AHEAD OF TIME
FOR ANY REVIEW OR ANY NOTES.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO SEE IF
THERE'S A MOTION TO APPROVE
TODAY'S AGENDA.
THIS IS KATHLEEN
.
YEAH, SURE.
THANK YOU, VICE CHAIRMAN
KEELER.
SO KATHLEEN, THANK YOU FOR THE
MOTION LARRY.
SECONDS ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING TODAY'S AGENDA FOR
THOSE COMMISSIONERS PLEASE ON
MUTE AND SAY I I I I THINK.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK THE AGENDA IS APPROVED
AND NEXT WE HAVE THE APPROVAL
OF THE MEETING MINUTES FROM
LAST MEETING KENNEDY THERE WERE
THOSE THOSE WERE SENT OUT.
>> CORRECT.
I JUST WANT TO DOUBLE CHECK
CORRECT OR I'M SORRY LET ME
DOUBLE CHECK THAT I THINK THEY
WERE YES.
>> COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ I JUST
LOOKED DOWN THE AGENDA AND
THERE'S NO ATTACK.
THERE WAS NO ATTACHMENT SO I
DID NOT SEE THE MINUTES.
>> OH, OK.
>> GOTCHA.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WITH THAT I DON'T THINK WE
CAN APPROVE THE MINUTES FROM
LAST MEETING SO WE MIGHT HAVE
TO MOVE THAT TO THE AGENDA FOR
OUR NEXT MEETING IF EVERYONE
HAS NOT SEEN THEM.
I APOLOGIZE.
I THOUGHT I HAD SENT THEM OUT
ON THE AGENDA.
>> NO PROBLEM.
WE'LL JUST GO AHEAD AND IF WE
COULD SHOW THAT TO THE NEXT
MEETING, THAT WOULD BE THAT
WOULD BE GREAT.
WELL, YES, ALL RIGHT.
WELL, GO AHEAD AND MOVE ON TO
OUR SPECIAL PRESENTATION
PORTION OF TODAY'S MEETING.
I HAVE TO SAY I'M SUPER EXCITED
FOR THIS PARTICULAR
PRESENTATION NOT ONLY IS THIS
GENTLEMEN VERY ENGAGING DOES A
WONDERFUL JOB AND IS VERY
KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOUT THE
PARTICULAR INDUSTRY OF ADAPTIVE
VEHICLES BUT ALSO I HAVE TO BE
HONEST BEFORE I HAD INTERACTED
WITH THIS GENTLEMAN I ACTUALLY
HAD NO IDEA THAT WE HAD A
ADAPTED VEHICLE COMPANY IN OUR
CITY LOCATED RIGHT IN ANN
ARBOR.
AND SO I WAS VERY GRATEFUL TO
ACTUALLY KNOW SUPERIOR VAN AND
MOBILITY AND WE ARE THEY ARE
ACTUALLY IN OUR CITY AND
AVAILABLE FOR ALL RESIDENTS TO
BE ABLE TO NOT ONLY PROVIDE
THEM WITH THE RESOURCES TO BE
ABLE TO DRIVE BUT ALSO WITH
VEHICLES AND THE ADAPTIVE
EQUIPMENT TO MAKE ALL VEHICLES
ACCESSIBLE.
SO WITH THAT NO PRESSURE, JOE,
BUT I'D LIKE TO INTRODUCE JOE
TO CARLA FROM SUPERIOR VAN
MOBILITY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I APPRECIATE WELCOME EVERYBODY.
I APPRECIATE YOU GUYS HAVING ME
ON TODAY.
I WAS VERY GRATEFUL TO MEET
ZACH AT MEETING EARLIER THIS
YEAR AND I'M JUST EXCITED TO
COME TALK ABOUT THAT DRIVING
ACCESSIBLE VEHICLES AND ZACH
NOT ALLOWED THERE ARE NOT
ENOUGH PEOPLE THAT KNOW THAT WE
ARE LOCATED IN ANN ARBOR RIGHT
OFF TWENTY THREE AND CARPENTER
WHERE WE ARE RIGHT SMACK DAB IN
IT RIGHT OFF THE HIGHWAY AND
IT'S SOMETHING I'M VERY
PASSIONATE ABOUT.
IT IS OUR NEWER LOCATIONS BUT I
TRY TO TALK TO AS GROUPS AS I
CAN ABOUT RESOURCES FUNDING
OPPORTUNITIES, WHAT THESE
VEHICLES LOOK LIKE, THE
AVAILABILITY OF CONTROLS LIFTS
SEE WHAT THEY CAN DO ALL THE
KIND OF STUFF I MUCH TO COME
TALK TO ALL TODAY ABOUT MY
SHOW, THE SLIDES FROM MY OR
YOUR HAND AND I HAVE A COUPLE
OF SLIDES WHERE I CAN GO OVER
WITH YOU GUYS.
>> WE'LL DO ANTHONY ARE YOU
ABLE TO GET JOE SHARE ACCESS?
YES I CAN'T ONCE I CAN THANK
YOU.
SHOULD BE ABLE TO SHARE YOUR
SCREEN NOW
I SHOULD PROBABLY BE
MYSELF BEFORE I PULL UP MY
SCREEN SO HOPEFULLY YOU CAN
HEAR ME JUST WANNA MAKE SURE I
CAN CANCER OK, PERFECT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO LIKE ZACH MENTIONED I'M WITH
A COMPANY CALLED SUPERIOR VAN
MOBILITY.
WE ARE THE LARGEST FAMILY OWNED
MOBILITY DEALERSHIP IN THE
COUNTRY.
WE HAVE SEVENTEEN SOON TO BE
EIGHTEEN STORE LOCATIONS ACROSS
THE NATION.
WE STEM FROM A LOT OF THE
MIDWEST AREAS.
OUR MOST RECENT STORE WE'VE
BEEN IN THE MARKET NOW IN
MICHIGAN FOR THE PAST SEVERAL
YEARS IS ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN
AND THAT'S KIND WHERE ZACK AND
I MET HE BROUGHT ME IN TO TALK
TO YOU ALL THIS IS GOING TO BE
A MUCH MORE CONDENSED VERSION
OF EVERYTHING THAT IS OUT THERE
.
I AM HERE AS A RESOURCE.
I'M HERE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU GUYS MAY
HAVE OR IF YOU WORK WITH
ANYBODY MIGHT HAVE ISSUES ABOUT
MOBILITY.
PLEASE LET ME KNOW.
I WILL TRY AND COVER AS MUCH AS
I CAN IN THE TIME THAT I HAVE
ALLOTTED.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO BE
RESPECTFUL OF YOUR RIZA'S AT
TIMES AS WELL.
OK, THE MAIN THING TO KNOW
ABOUT SUPERIOR BRAND MOBILITY
IS WE ARE PART OF AN
ORGANIZATION CALLED NATIONAL
MOBILITY EQUIPMENT DEALERS
ASSOCIATION.
THEY ARE ESSENTIALLY THE
SAFEGUARD OF THE INDUSTRY THAT
GUARANTEE THE WORK THAT'S DONE
ON THE VEHICLES.
THERE'S DOCUMENTATION,
EVERYTHING THAT'S DONE,
EVERYTHING IS CRASH TESTED AND
APPROVED WHICH IS NOT ALWAYS
THE CASE IF YOU WORK WITH MORE
INDEPENDENT SHOPS BUT BECAUSE
WE'RE PART OF THIS NATIONAL
ORGANIZATION IT'S A HIGHER
SAFETY STANDARD FOR THOSE IN
THE VEHICLE AND THOSE ARE
DRIVING NEXT TO THE VEHICLE AS
WELL TOO.
>> WITH THAT COMES A STAMP
OF APPROVAL FROM THE METER WE
CALLED AQAP QUALITY ASSURANCE
PROGRAM THE BIGGEST BENEFIT
OF AQAP DEALERSHIP IS THAT YOU
HAVE TWENTY FOUR SEVEN SERVICE
SO YOU CAN ACTUALLY CALL OUR
STORE ANY TIME OF THE DAY ANY
DAY THE WEEK AND YOU WILL GET A
TECHNICIAN ON THE PHONE VERY
EASILY SO ANYONE WHO HAS LIFT
ISSUES, MOBILITY ISSUES THAT
SUDDENLY WILL COME IN THE
VEHICLE WHATEVER THE CASE IS
YOU CAN GET A TECHNICIAN ON THE
PHONE WHICH YOU CAN'T DO THAT A
STANDARD DEALERSHIP THAT'S A
BENEFIT OF WORKING WITH AN
IMMEDIATE DEALER AND THERE ARE
OTHER MOBILITY DEALERS THAT ARE
IN MICHIGAN.
THEY ARE NOT ALL PART OF THIS
PROGRAM BUT IDEALLY WHAT YOU
WANT TO DO IS YOU'RE GOING TO
MEET A DOG.
THERE'S A SEARCH ENGINE TO FIND
YOUR CLOSEST LOCATION FOR ALL
OF YOUR BUSINESS PURPOSES.
WE'RE THE ONES IN ANN ARBOR SO
YOU'RE LIKELY TO WANT TO WORK
WITH US JUST BECAUSE WE'RE
CLOSE BY.
BUT IF YOU HAVE ANYBODY THAT'S
NOT RIGHT IN OUR BACKYARD, IF
THEY LOOK AT THAT SEARCH ENGINE
,THEY CAN FIND THEIR CLOSEST
TO A DEALER.
SO AS LONG AS NOT WORKING WITH
US ANOTHER DEALER HAS THAT SAME
ACCREDITATION THAT'S THE
BIGGEST FOCUS THAT WE WEREN'T
TRYING TO PUSH IS MAYBE THEY
HAVE HIGHER STANDARDS.
THERE'S GUARANTEE OF THE WORK
BEING DONE.
EVERYTHING THAT'S BEEN APPROVED
FROM THE CONTROL OF THE WITH
YOUR TIE DOWNS, THE ATTORNEY
FEES, NOTHING IS INSTALLED
HAPHAZARDLY AND IF ANYONE WERE
TO INSTALL HAND CONTROLS
OUTSIDE OF AN IMMEDIATE
DEALERSHIP BY LAW UNLIMITED
DEALERSHIP CANNOT TOUCH THAT
VEHICLE ANYMORE.
IT'S THEN OUTSIDE THE WARRANTY
THEY'VE DONE WORK THEMSELVES.
THERE'S NO LONGER THAT
GUARANTEE OF SAFETY ANYMORE.
SO WE TRY AND ADVOCATE FOR
PEOPLE TO NOT JUST GO BY HAND
CONTROLS ONLINE.
WE SEE IT ALL THE TIME BUT THEY
ARE THE WRONG EQUIPMENT.
PEOPLE WILL BUY VANS ONLINE
FULLY ADAPTED AND CONTROLS NOT
INSTALLED BUT TRY AND DO IT
THEMSELVES AND THEY CAN MISTAKE
.
UNFORTUNATELY IT HAPPENS AND WE
GET WHY BUT IT'S A BIG ISSUE
THAT WE'RE TRYING TO KIND
OF COVER RIGHT NOW AND MANY
DEALERSHIPS WILL WORK WITH
CONSUMER FOR AS LONG AS
NECESSARY.
BUT IT'S NOT IT'S NOT A COME
IN.
WE'VE GOT TO CLOSE THE A DAY
IT'S HOW LONG CAN WE WORK WITH
YOU TO GET YOU THE EQUIPMENT
AND VEHICLE THAT ACTUALLY SUITS
THOSE NEEDS SO ALWAYS LOOK FOR
THAT STAMP OF QIP.
OK, SO HOW DOES THE WORK HOW
DOES THE PROCESS WORK?
SOME OF THIS MIGHT BE FAMILIAR
WITH YOU GUYS.
SOME OF IT MIGHT NOT.
BUT THE BIGGEST THE MOST TALKED
ABOUT IS WHEN YOU FIND YOUR
DEALER WANTED TO MEET A WEBSITE
.
THE FIRST QUESTION THAT'S
ALWAYS ASKED IS IS THAT PERSON
IN A WHEELCHAIR GOING TO BE
DRIVING OR IS IT GOING TO BE
TRANSPORT ONLY IF YOU'RE GOING
TO DRIVING HOWEVER TEMPORARILY
FROM A WHEELCHAIR WHETHER IT'S
IN THE CHAIR OR TRANSFERRING TO
THE SEAT, YOU NEED TO HAVE HAND
CONTROLS AND WITH THAT COMES
DRIVER TRAINING.
SO A CERTIFIED DRIVER
REHABILITATION SPECIALISTS ARE
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPISTS BY
TRAIN THAT GET ADDITIONAL
CERTIFICATION AND ACTUALLY WILL
GET BEHIND THE WHEEL WITH
PEOPLE TO ACTUALLY HELP THEM
WITH HAND CONTROLS FIGURE OUT
IS IT A PUSH PULL HANG CONTROL
IS A PUSH RIGHT TWIST AND IT'S
A CERTIFICATION ON THEIR
LICENSE THAT THEY GET THEN
SHOWS US AND THEIR INSURANCE
COMPANY THAT THEY'VE DONE THE
WORK THAT EQUIPMENT WORKS FOR
THEM AND THAT WE CAN THEN
INSTALL THAT EQUIPMENT.
WE'RE NOT ALLOWED TO INSTALL
ANY EQUIPMENT INTO A VEHICLE
WITHOUT THAT PRESCRIPTION
DIRECTLY FROM A CPRS AS FAR AS
YOU CAN IMAGINE, A LOT OF OUR
WORK HINGES ON THEM AND THERE
IS A SHORTAGE IN THE WORLD BUT
IT'S THE SAME KIND OF WORLD
OF THE THE SEARCH ENGINE ON THE
UNAIDED DOT NET TO FIND YOUR
CLOSEST DRIVER EVALUATOR THERE
ARE SEVERAL IN MICHIGAN THAT
CAN HELP.
THEY'RE VERY GREAT ARE A LOT
OF DIFFERENT ONES BUT THAT IS A
BIG, BIG PART OF WHAT WE DO
BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW THEY EXIST
AND IF YOU IF YOU WERE TO
INSTALL HAND CONTROLS AND NOT
GO THROUGH A SEVERE TEST AND
GOD FORBID YOU GET IN AN
ACCIDENT IF THERE'S NOT THAT
MARK ON YOUR INSURANCE, IF
THERE IS NOT THE DOCUMENTATION
ON YOUR LICENSE, INSURANCE WILL
NOT COVER THE DAMAGES.
THEY'LL LIKELY REVOKE YOUR
LICENSE BECAUSE YOU'RE DRIVING
USING EQUIPMENT THAT YOU
SHOULDN'T.
SO IT'S BETTER TO GO SOMETIMES
A LITTLE BIT LONGER ROUTE AND
GO THROUGH THOSE SAFETY
TRAININGS.
SO IF THERE IS AN INCIDENT
WHERE YOU ACTUALLY GET AN
ACCIDENT, WHETHER IT'S YOUR
FAULT OR NOT, YOU'RE MORE
COVERED THAN IF YOU TRY TO DO
IT YOURSELF.
THAT'S A BIG PUSH WE ALWAYS TRY
TO DO AND THEN IF YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO DRIVE A WHEELCHAIR AT
ALL, YOU DON'T NEED ANY
CONTROLS.
YOU CAN SKIP NUMBER TWO AND YOU
CAN COME IN AND BUY A FULLY
ADAPTED VAN RIGHT OFF OUR LOT
LIKE YOU.
WHAT A TYPICAL VAN AND THERE'S
A BUNCH OF DIFFERENT FUNDING
OPTIONS OUT THERE AS WELL AND
THAT'S KIND OF NEXT UP I WANT
TO KIND OF COME SO COUNTRY
COUNTRY WIDE ALMOST ALL STATES
HAVE SOMETHING CALLED
VOCATIONAL REBOTE
REHABILITATION.
SO THE VOC REHAB WILL FUND
CONVERSION OF A VEHICLE IF THAT
PERSON IS GOING TO BE WORKING
HOWEVER TEMPORARY, IT COULD BE
A PART TIME JOB WHERE YOU'RE
WORKING THREE HOURS A WEEK IF
YOU HAVE THE DISTINCTION THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO WORK AND YOU
NEED A VEHICLE, VOC REHAB WILL
FUND THE CONVERSION SO THEY
ALWAYS SPLIT BY THE CHASSY AND
BY THE CONVERSION ITSELF.
CHASSY IS WHAT JUST THE VEHICLE
THE VEHICLE IS NOT THE MEDICAL
NEED.
IT'S THE CONVERSION PROCESS
THAT'S THE MEDICAL NEED AND
SOME PEOPLE THINK THAT THESE
VEHICLES ARE JUST RAMPS IN VANS
AND THEY'RE ACTUALLY NOT AND IF
I HAD AN ABUNDANCE OF TIME I'D
TELL YOU ALL THE VIDEOS, ALL
THE CASES THAT WE HAVE.
BUT REALLY IT'S A WHOLE NEW SUB
FLOOR OF THE VEHICLE.
SO THEY EVENTUALLY CUT OUT THE
ENTIRE BOTTOM.
THEY REWIRE EVERYTHING, ADD IN
DIFFERENT SEATING, THEY ADD IN
THE TRACKS ALONG THE FLOOR TO
PUT IN THE WHEELCHAIR TIE DOWNS
AS WELL.
SO MOST CONVERSIONS ALONE COST
ABOUT THIRTY TO FORTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS WHICH I UNDERSTAND IS
EXPENSIVE AND THAT'S WHY THESE
GROUPS ARE IMPORTANT TO HAVE.
SO VOC REHAB IS BIG.
THE VA IS HUGE AND I HAVE TO
FACT CHECK THIS BECAUSE THIS
MIGHT HAVE JUST JUST RECENTLY
CHANGED BUT UP UNTIL I THINK
LIKE A WEEK OR TWO AGO THE VA
IF YOU'RE ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
SERVICE CONNECTED VETERAN YOU
CAN GET A FULLY CONVERTED VAN
EVERY TWO YEARS WITH YOUR
BENEFITS.
MOST PEOPLE DON'T KNOW THAT
INFORMATION UNFORTUNATELY.
SO WE TRY TO ADVOCATE AS MUCH
AS WE CAN THAT THOSE BENEFITS
EXIST ESPECIALLY FOR OUR
VETERANS.
IT'S A HUGE POPULATION
OF PEOPLE THAT WE SUPPORT BUT
THERE'S NOT A LOT OF SUPPORT
FOR THEM AND WE WERE HAPPY TO
HELP KIND OF WALK THROUGH THAT
PROCESS.
WE TRYING TO CONNECT VETERANS
WITH OUR VETS, THOSE THAT ARE
HOSPITALS WHO ARE CLOSE WITH
THEM ALL THE TIME TRY TO HELP
KIND OF GET THAT FUNDING SOURCE
WHICH IS A VERY BIG SOURCE.
NEXT IS A GROUP CALLED BRIDGE
TO MOBILITY.
>> IT'S ACTUALLY BRAND NEW AND
ESSENTIALLY TRIES TO DRIVE
CUSTOMERS TO WORK WITH AND TO
MEET A DEALERSHIP AND THEN NOT
TO MEET A DEALERSHIP APPLIES TO
BRIDGE THE MOBILITY ON THEIR
BEHALF AND YOU CAN GET UP TO
FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
OF ASSISTANCE TOWARDS THAT
PURCHASE PROCESS AND THAT'S
SOMETIMES REALLY COULD BE A
MAKE OR BREAK DEAL OF DO I GO
TO THIS MAN OR NOT.
SO THAT'S A GREAT OPTION IN
MICHIGAN SPECIFICALLY THERE'S
MICHIGAN MEDICAID WAIVERS.
THERE'S A CHILDREN SPECIAL
NEEDS FUND FOR ANYONE THAT HAS
DISABILITY THAT'S CHILD THERE'S
FUNDS ADDITIONALLY FOR THAT AS
WELL AND ALSO SPECIFIC TO
MICHIGAN IS A GROUP CALLED
LAWRIE'S VOICE LOWERS VOICE
TRIES TO GIVE WAY AT LEAST TO
FULLY ADAPTED VANS EVERY TWO
YEARS OR NO I'M SORRY TO AT
LEAST TWO VANS EVERY YEAR TO A
FAMILY IN NEED SO FAMILIES
ACTUALLY CAN APPLY ON LORI'S
VOICE, TRY TO GET THOSE
VEHICLES AS WELL.
I'M THAT'S A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
THAT IS SPECIFIC TO JUST
MICHIGAN AND MICHIGAN ALONE AND
THERE'S MORE THEY'RE TRYING TO
DO THAT THEY ALREADY HAVE THE
PROGRAM UP AND RUNNING.
I HAVE NO CONNECTION WITH THE
ORGANIZATION.
I HAVE HEARD ABOUT IT AND I
TRIED TO DRIVE PEOPLE THERE AS
MUCH AS I CAN BUT NOTHING ELSE
THAT'S OFFERED THAT MOST PEOPLE
DON'T KNOW IS IT'S CALLED THE
OEMS ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT
MANUFACTURERS.
THEY DON'T OFFER AND DON'T DO
ANY OF THE CONVERSION PROCESS.
WHAT THEY DO OFFER IS REBATES
ON THE TAIL END OF THE PURCHASE
PROCESS SO YOU CAN GET UP TO
TWELVE HUNDRED DOLLARS
OF ASSISTANCE FROM AN OEM IF
YOU PURCHASE A NEW VEHICLE SO
THE DEALERSHIP KNOWS THIS
INFORMATION AND THEY CAN HELP
SOMEONE TO WALK THROUGH THIS
PROCESS AND MAKE SURE THEY
APPLY FOR THIS REBATE.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING IT HELPS THE
INITIAL COST BUT IT HELPS ON
THE TAIL END AFTER THE
PURCHASES ARE MADE.
SO IF THAT IS SOMETHING THAT
PEOPLE NEED AND THAT COULD
BREAK THE DEAL, WE WILL TRY TO
HELP GUIDE PEOPLE TOWARDS A
NEWER VEHICLE IF IT'S FITS THAT
MEAN SO THEY CAN GET THIS
ASSISTANCE AS WELL TO OK SO
THIS IS WHAT A FULL SIZE VAN
LOOKS LIKE.
IT USED TO LOOK A LITTLE
DIFFERENT WHERE I WAS RAISED
ROOF NOW THERE'S FULL LIFT
SYSTEMS AND THERE EVEN SOME
THAT ARE BRAND NEW WHERE THEY
DON'T HAVE THE LIFT UNDERNEATH
THE VEHICLE ANYMORE ACTUALLY
CAN IN THE FLOORING THAT'S LIKE
BRAND NEW FROM ABILITY MOST
FULL SIZE VAN.
THE BIGGEST BENEFIT IS THE FACT
YOU CAN HAVE MORE THAN TWO
PEOPLE IN A WHEELCHAIR IN A
FULL SIZED VAN SO THESE ARE
VERY COMMON WITH COMPANIES,
HOSPITALS, PATIENT
ORGANIZATIONS.
THESE ARE FANTASTIC FOR THAT
REASON JUST BECAUSE OF THE
SPACE THAT DOES ALLOW MOST
PEOPLE TO UTILIZE IS A LOWERED
FLOOR MINIVAN SO LOWERED FOR
MINIVANS THERE ARE SIDE ENTRY
AND THERE ARE WE ARE ENTRY AND
SITE ENTRY BANS ARE FOR ANYBODY
IS GOING TO BE DRIVING FROM THE
WHEELCHAIR OR TRANSFERRING IN
OR TRANSFER SEATS AND THEN
UTILIZING THE STEERING WHEEL.
THAT'S JUST BECAUSE YOU STILL
HAVE THE TRUNK SPACE IN THE
BACK WHEREAS YOU WOULDN'T
NATURALLY IN A REAR ENTRY
WHEREAS REAR ENTRY IT'S MORE
ABOUT JUST GETTING THAT PERSON
INSIDE THE VEHICLE.
THERE'S ALWAYS FOLD-OUT AND IN
FLOOR RAMPS FOLD-OUT RAMPS CAN
DEPLOY ANY CURVE HEIGHT AND IN
FLOOR RAMPS ARE GREAT BECAUSE A
LITTLE BIT SLEEKER DESIGNS YOU
CAN USE BOTH SIDES OF THE
VEHICLE WITHOUT HAVING TO
DEPLOY THAT RAMP BUT BOTH CAN
BE UTILIZED EVEN WITHOUT
ELECTRIC.
SO THERE IS AN ELECTRICAL
FAILURE INSIDE THE VEHICLE.
BOTH RAMPS CAN DEPLOY AND THEY
HAVE A THOUSAND POUND CAPACITY
NOW BECAUSE MOST POWER
WHEELCHAIRS ARE FOUR HUNDRED
POUNDS HAVING THAT ADDITIONAL
ALLOWS THE PERSON IN THE
VEHICLE VERY EASILY AND AS YOU
CAN TELL WITH THAT LITTLE
PICTURE THERE IS A LOT OF SPACE
ON THE INSIDE NOW THE RUBBER
FLOORING THEY'RE VERY EASY TO
CLEAN AND THERE ARE WHEELCHAIR
TIE DOWNS THAT YOU KIND
OF MANIPULATE ALL THROUGHOUT
THE INSIDE.
BUT NOT EVERYONE WANTS MINIVANS
SOME PEOPLE WANT SUVS.
SO THE ONLY ADAPTED SUV ON THE
MARKET IS A CHEVY TRAVERSE.
IT LOOKS JUST LIKE THE STANDARD
SUV YOU HAVE A DIVERSE BUT IT
HAS A ROLLING DOOR LIKE A
MINIVAN.
SOME PEOPLE THAT LOOK OF THE
SUV BUT THERE ARE THERE ARE
SMALLER THEY HAD TO KIND
OF ACCOMMODATE THAT BY PUTTING
THAT DOOR IN THE MINIVAN TO
ALLOW FOR THAT DOOR WIDER WITH
TALLER DOOR OPENING.
IT'S ALWAYS MORE POWER IN FLOOR
IN A CHEVY TRAVERSE THERE.
VERY NICE VEHICLES.
WE SEE A LOT OF THIS HAPPENING
WITH YOUNG FAMILIES THAT WANTS
TO HAVE THEY NEED THE
ACCESSIBILITY FEATURE BUT THEY
WANT TO HAVE A LITTLE BIT
SLEEKER THAN THE MINIMUM.
ADDITIONALLY, SOMEBODY WILL
WANT TO CONVERT TRUCKS AS WELL
TO THE BOTTOM PICTURE THAT YOU
SEE THERE THAT IS ACTUALLY A
FULL PLATFORM CONVERSION FROM A
TRUCK WE DON'T GET INVOLVED AND
I THINK TO THAT EXTENT JUST
QUITE FRANKLY BECAUSE THEY ARE
VERY EXPENSIVE TO DO WHAT WE DO
OFFER FOR TRUCKS AND ANY
VEHICLE FOR THAT INSTANCE IT
WAS CALLED ATTORNEY SEAT AND
THAT'S THAT TOP RIGHT PICTURE.
SO THAT'S THE ORIGINAL FACTORY
SEAT THAT TURNED AND LOWERS TO
THE GROUND ALL BY REMOTE
CONTROL.
THERE'S NOTHING CALLED IN A
HOIST LIFT YOU CAN SEE PICKING
UP THAT WHEELCHAIR, PUTTING IT
IN THE BACK OF THE BED OF THE
TRUCK AND SOMETIMES IT'S EVEN
LIKE A ROLLING HOP THAT WILL
COVER THAT WHEELCHAIR AS WELL
TO TURN THE SEATS ARE FANTASTIC
AND CAN BE INSTALLED IN PRETTY
MUCH ANY VEHICLE WE HAVE SEEN
THEM INSTALLED IN JUST A FOUR
DOOR SEDANS.
THEY CAN BE IN THE FRONT OR THE
BACK OF A MINIVAN DEPENDING
WHERE THE PERSON IS SITTING
THERE.
GREAT TO HELP PEOPLE TRANSFER
FROM THE WHEELCHAIR INTO THE
SEAT.
WE CAN TALK ABOUT THAT A LITTLE
BIT.
THEY'RE ALSO GREAT FOR ANYONE
MIGHT BE ELDERLY THAT'S AFRAID
TO GET IN A VEHICLE THAT'S KIND
OF MEET THEM WHERE THEY'RE
THEIR HEIGHT IS NOT AFRAID AND
HAVING THAT WHITE KNUCKLE GRIP
ON THAT DOOR FRAME AND THAT
KIND OF HELPS THEM GET INTO THE
VEHICLE BIT EASIER AND I KNOW
I'M GOING FAST BUT LIKE I SAID,
THERE'S SO MUCH DETAILS TO
COVER .
I'M TRYING TO DO MY BEST I CAN
HERE.
SO THERE ARE HAND CONTROLS,
WHEELCHAIR TIE DOWNS LIFTS.
THE MAIN THING TO KNOW ABOUT
ALL THIS THAT A PART OF THE
MEDIA EVERYTHING IS CRASHES
THAT ARE APPROVED EVEN DOWN TO
THE WHEELCHAIR TIE.
SO THEY ARE NOW THEY LOOK LIKE
THE STANDARD SEATBELTS.
THEY HAVE AUTOMATIC AND MANUAL
STRAPS AND THAT PICTURE YOU SEE
UNDER THE LOGO STRAIN THAT'S
ACTUALLY CALLED A KULAK THAT
GETS BOLTED INTO THE FLOOR.
SO THAT IS AN OPTION FOR
ANYBODY TO ACTUALLY JUST ROLL
DIRECTLY INTO SECURE THEM INTO
PLACE AND THEY CAN RELEASE
THEMSELVES FROM THE DASHBOARD.
THAT'S VERY COMMON.
WE SEE THAT WITH POWER
WHEELCHAIRS ARE GOING TO BE
DRIVING THAT WAY.
THERE'S NOT ADDITIONAL
MOVEMENT.
IT'S EASIER TO KIND OF HANDLE
THAT BUT THERE ARE MANUAL
CONTROLS.
THERE ARE STILL RODS THAT
MIDDLE PICTURE AND ELECTRONIC
MOBILITY CONTROLS IN THE BOTTOM
RIGHT THAT ELECTRONIC COMPUTER
CONTROLS ACTUALLY REMOVE THE
GAS IN THE BRAKE.
EVERYTHING IS CONTROLLED BY A
BOX UP BY THE DASHBOARD.
THAT'S WHERE IT COME WITH POWER
WHEELCHAIRS.
BUT SOME PEOPLE NEED IT DEPENDS
KIND OF WHAT THEIR
FUNCTIONALITY IS SO THERE IS NO
OPTIONS TO MEET EVERYONE'S
ACCESSIBILITY LEVELS AND
BECAUSE OF THAT THERE IS
EQUIPMENT TO MATCH ALL THOSE
NEEDS AS WELL TO EVEN DOWN TO
LEFT FOOT ACCELERATOR TO THE
BOTTOM LEFT HAND CORNER THAT
FLIPS THE GAS IN THE BRAKE SO
ANYONE THAT MIGHT HAVE HAD A
STROKE ON THE RIGHT SIDE THERE
ARE RIGHT SIDE AMPUTEE LEFT
FOOT ACCELERATOR PUTS THAT GAS
PEDAL ON THE LEFT HAND SIDE AND
ALL THE STUFF HAS TO GO THROUGH
DRIVER TRAINING BUT THE BENEFIT
OF IT IS TO GET THEM BACK ON
THE ROAD WHEREAS TWENTY YEARS
AGO THEY MIGHT HAVE JUST TOLD
YOU THEY'RE STUCK BECAUSE
THERE'S NO OPTION FOR THEM.
THAT IS NO LONGER THE OPTION
EVERYONE CAN HAVE THE ABILITY
TO DRIVE NOW THEY'RE JUST IT
DEPENDS ON ARE THEY ABLE TO GO
THROUGH DRIVER TRAINING, GO AND
TAKE THE TIME AND DO THEY WANT
THE IMPROVED QUALITY OF LIFE?
THAT'S QUITE FRANKLY BECAUSE
THAT'S ALL THE STUFF CAN OFFER
AND IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE FOR
CAREGIVER AS WELL TOO WHICH
SHOULD NEXT SLIDE.
YES.
SO NOT JUST PEOPLE THAT ARE
WITH DISABILITIES THAT ARE
DRIVING BUT CAREGIVERS ARE
SUPPORTING THEM AS WELL TO NOT
EVERYONE WANTS TO FOLD UP A
WHEELCHAIR AND CRAM IT INTO A
TRUNK OFTENTIMES TOO TIGHT.
SO THERE ARE LIFTS TO
ACCOMMODATE THAT THERE ARE
EXTRA OR LIFTS ON THE BACK IN
THE VEHICLES THERE ARE INTO
YOUR IF THEY CAN PICK UP THAT
WHEELCHAIR AND PUT IT INTO THE
VEHICLE, THAT'S SOMETHING
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR.
IT REALLY JUST DEPENDS ON THAT
SPECIFIC MODEL OF VEHICLE
THEY'RE TOWING CAPACITY WHAT
THAT PERSON WANTS AND THESE ARE
GREAT FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE TO
NOT HAVE TO TRY TO CRAM DOWN
WHEELCHAIRS INTO JUST A
STANDARD TRUNK.
SO THIS IS ANOTHER A WHOLE
OTHER DEPARTMENT THAT WE HELP
PEOPLE WITH ALL THE TIME.
THIS IS A GREAT EXAMPLE
OF ATTORNEY SEAT TURNING SEATS
ARE QUITE INEXPENSIVE COMPARED
TO BUYING A WHOLE NEW VEHICLE
THERE.
HONESTLY.
>> AWESOME.
I HAD ONE INSTALLED IN MY OWN
GRANDMOTHER'S VEHICLE BECAUSE
SHE WAS A FALL RISK.
SHE WAS AFRAID TO GO ON THE
ROAD.
YOU WANT TO GO ANYWHERE AND SO
WE HAD IT INSTALLED IN HER
VEHICLE JUST BECAUSE THEN IT
KIND MET HER WHERE SHE NEEDED
TO GET HER IN THE VEHICLE, GET
HER OUT ON THE ROAD AGAIN.
AND THIS HELPS A LOT OF PEOPLE
FROM THE CAREGIVERS PERSPECTIVE
OF TRYING TO PICK SOMEONE UP
AND PUT THEM IN THE WHEELCHAIR
AND ALSO FROM THE PERSON IN THE
WHEELCHAIR ALLOWS THEM TO
TRANSFER A LITTLE BIT EASIER.
I'M ACTUALLY STILL WORKING ON
MY OWN.
>> ANOTHER ONE I'VE HAD MEMBERS
MY MY COUSIN HAS DISABILITY
CALLED BROKEN X SYNDROME SO SHE
DOES UTILIZE A WHEELCHAIR, HAS
VERY LIMITED MOBILITY ISSUES.
SHE CAN KIND OF CRAWL A LITTLE
BIT BUT SHE CAN'T WALK BECAUSE
SHE'S IN THE CHAIR A LOT
OF TIMES.
SO MY UNCLE ACTUALLY WILL PICK
HER UP VERY SIMILAR TO THIS
PICTURE.
WE'LL PICK HER UP AND PUT
INSIDE THE VEHICLE.
HE CAN DO IT BECAUSE HE'S SIX
FIVE AND HAS NO PROBLEM BUT MY
AUNT IS FIVE ONE.
SO IN THE EVENT HAPPENS TO HIM
MY COUSIN WILL BE VERY MUCH
STUCK IN HER CHAIR BECAUSE MY
AUNT COULD NOT PICK HER UP.
>> SO I'M STILL TRYING TO TALK
TO HIM ABOUT HOW MAYBE HE
SHOULD HAVE THAT INSTALLED IN
HIS OWN VEHICLE JUST TO KIND
OF HELP THEM HAVE THAT PEACE
OF MIND AS WELL TO I FEEL LIKE
I'M ALMOST MY TIME.
BUT LASTLY HERE ARE JUST SOME
RESOURCES AS WELL.
IT'S JUST A VERY LONG LIST
OF WHERE YOU CAN GO TO FIND ALL
THE INFORMATION, LEARN MORE
ABOUT THE OEM RESOURCES, OUR
RESOURCES AND THE MEDIA WHERE
TO FIND YOUR DRIVER EVALUATOR
ALL THE KIND OF STUFF I'M HAPPY
TO SHARE MORE INFORMATION AS
WELL.
AND THEN LASTLY, I KNOW I TALK
FAST.
I WANT TO BE RESPECTFUL OF YOUR
TIME AS WELL TOO.
BUT MY NAME IS JOE DECOLA.
I'M A FIELD MARKETING
REPRESENTATIVE FROM OUR FORT
WAYNE SOUTH BEND AND OUR AND
ARBOR LOCATION.
I PRETTY MUCH COVER ANY
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS NORTH
INDIANA AND ALL OF MICHIGAN.
>> SO IF YOU EVER HAVE HAS
QUESTIONS THAT NEEDS RESOURCES
THAT WANTS TO LEARN MORE ABOUT
THE STUFF BY ALL MEANS CALL ME,
EMAIL ME, REACH OUT.
I AM HAPPY TO KIND OF GET THIS
INFORMATION OUT.
I DON'T SELL AT ALL MY WHOLE
LIFE IS JUST MARKETING AND
TEACHING.
PEOPLE TRY TO HELP KIND OF GET
MORE PEOPLE BACK ON THE ROAD
BECAUSE OUR FOCUS IS MAKING
MOBILITY POSSIBLE.
HOW CAN WE WIDE IN THE WORLD
FOR EVERYBODY?
THAT'S WHY I LIKE MEETING
PEOPLE WHO KIND OF HELP MAKE
THINGS HAPPEN AS WELL BUT THAT
IS ALL I HAVE.
>> ANY QUESTIONS OR ANYTHING?
YEAH.
THANK YOU JOE.
I JUST WANT TO FIRST OF ALL
JUST THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR ALL
THAT INFORMATION AND YES I KNOW
IT IS DIFFICULT TO COVER A
EXPANSIVE SUBJECT MATTER LIKE
ACCESSIBLE VEHICLES IN A SHORT
AMOUNT OF TIME.
BUT I APPRECIATE YOU DOING THAT
NOT JUST FOR OUR COMMISSION BUT
FOR THE MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY AS WELL.
AND SO YEAH, WITH THAT I MEAN
I'D LIKE TO OPEN IT UP AT LEAST
I WILL SAY TO THREE QUESTIONS
JUST FOR THE INTEREST OF TIME
AND THEN BEYOND THE THREE YOU
GUYS I WILL SAY THAT IF THERE
ARE ANY ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS
YOU KNOW PLEASE HOPEFULLY WE AS
A COMMISSION CAN KEEP IN TOUCH
WITH YOU, JOE AND YOU WILL BE
ABLE TO REACH OUT TO YOU AS A
AS A GUIDE AND A RESOURCE FOR
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS REGARDING
MOBILITY AND ACCESSIBLE
VEHICLES.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT, IF THERE ARE
INDIVIDUAL COMMISSIONERS THAT
DO HAVE QUESTIONS AT THIS TIME,
PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND AND
KENNEDY WILL CALL ON YOU.
>> MR PACARD OF YES THE
ULTIMATE ACCESSIBILITY VEHICLE
TO SOMEONE WHO DOESN'T DRIVE
BECAUSE OF VISION DOES
OBVIOUSLY AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES
YOU DEAL IN ANYTHING LIKE THAT
AT ALL AND BE AWARE THAT SPACE
IS FOR THIS AREA.
>> YEAH WE DO NOT JUST YET.
WE KIND OF LIKE TO SAY THAT OUR
INDUSTRY IS SLIGHTLY BEHIND OR
STANDARD CAR INDUSTRY IS I
TOTALLY SEE THE VALUE IN
AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES WITH
MOBILITY VEHICLES AS WELL TOO.
I HAVE NO IDEA WHAT KIND
OF OPENING THAT WILL CREATE IN
MY HEAD.
I THINK IT ACTUALLY WOULD OPEN
THE WORLD MORE TO PEOPLE.
IT MIGHT CHANGE HOW DRIVER
EVALUATORS ARE USED BUT INSTEAD
OF HELPING PEOPLE GET AROUND
MORE THAT HAVE VEHICLES THAT
ARE MORE RELIABLE FOR
THEMSELVES, I DEFINITELY SEE
THAT WORLD COMING FOR SURE.
BUT WE HAVE NOT DEALT WITH THAT
JUST YET.
THE QUESTION YEAH.
ANYONE ELSE, COMMISSIONER
PATRICK?
>> OH AND IF SOMEONE WANTS TO
IF YOU WANT TO PUT A PHONE
NUMBER CONTACT INFORMATION OR
ANYTHING OUT THERE, IF PEOPLE
HAVE ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS ON
OR GET IN TOUCH WITH YOU.
>> YEAH, MY MY CELL PHONE
NUMBER IS TWO SIX ZERO EIGHT
EIGHT EIGHT NINE THREE FIVE
THREE.
I ALWAYS HAVE MY CELL PHONE ON
ME.
I'M HAPPY TO SEND THIS TO CANDY
AND ZACH AS WELL TO MY EMAIL IS
JAY DECOLA DISSY L.A. SUPERIOR
VAN DOTCOM.
ANYONE CAN REACH ME AT ANY TIME
WITH QUESTIONS LIKE I ALWAYS
SAY I'M NOT IN SALES.
I'M JUST A RESOURCE OF HOW CAN
I HELP MARKET?
HOW CAN I HELP GET YOU GUYS
WHAT YOU NEED?
I'M HAPPY TO SEND YOU RESOURCE
LISTS LINKS TO ANYTHING VIDEOS
TO ANYTHING I AM HERE IS YOUR
GUYS IS KIND OF PERSONAL
INFORMATION ABOUT HOW TO
NAVIGATE THIS VERY COMPLEX
INDUSTRY.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU SO MUCH JOE AND I
CAN'T SAY ENOUGH JUST HOW MUCH
WE APPRECIATE HAVING THIS
RESOURCE RIGHT HERE IN ANN
ARBOR BUT THEN ALSO HAVING YOU
AS A CONTACT POINT FOR US AS
WELL GOING FORWARD.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH AND I HOPE
WE CAN CONTINUE JUST TO TO BE A
RESOURCE FOR YOU AS WELL SO
THAT IF THERE ARE QUESTIONS
THAT YOU HAVE IN TERMS
OF DRIVERS OR DISABILITIES OR
THINGS YOU WANT TO DO TO BE
ABLE TO REACH OUT, HOPEFULLY
YOU FEEL THAT YOU CAN DO THAT.
ABSOLUTELY.
I APPRECIATE YOU TAKING THE
TIME TO LET ME TALK TO YOU HERE
FOR A MINUTE AND ZACHARY INVITE
ME IN TO COME TO MEET EVERYBODY
.
I WILL FOLLOW UP ALL MY CONTACT
INFO FOR YOU GUYS AS WELL TO
YOUR MORE THAN WELCOME TO
SHARE.
EVERYONE HAS QUESTIONS OFFLINE
AS WELL.
>> YEAH, I AM HERE AS A
RESOURCE FOR WHATEVER YOU NEED
.
THANK YOU FOR SHARING.
THANK YOU.
YEAH THANK YOU.
THANK YOU JOE.
RIGHT.
I REALLY APPRECIATE ALL THAT.
I MEAN WHO KNOWS GUYS MAYBE
WE'LL HAVE TO SWING BY THE
OFFICE THERE AND I'LL CHECK IT
CHECK IT OUT TOGETHER AS A
COMMISSION THEN BE FUN RIGHT.
MAYBE MAYBE DO SOME SOME TEST
DRIVES.
AWESOME.
COOL.
APPRECIATE IT.
NEXT ON OUR AGENDA I WANT TO
MOVE TO OUR NEXT PRESENTATION
SO WE DO HAVE THE WASHTENAW
LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND
DISABLED AND WE HAVE KADIM ON
KABBAGE.
>> WELCOME KATIE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANKS FOR HAVING ME AS ALWAYS.
HAPPY TO BE HERE.
AND THAT WAS A REALLY GREAT
PRESENTATION.
I LEARNED A LOT TOO.
SO I APPRECIATE THAT I TELL YOU
ABOUT SOME UPCOMING EVENTS THAT
ARE HAPPENING AT THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY IN THE SPIRIT
OF HALLOWEEN WE HAVE HAUNTED
MITTON PRESENTS HAUNTED ANN
ARBOR ON THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24TH
FROM SIX THIRTY TO SEVEN THIRTY
PM AT THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY COME
FOR A SPOOKY SPOOKY EVENING
OF HISTORY AND GHOST STORIES
ABOUT ANN ARBOR IN YPSILANTI
WITH THE GHOSTS OF HAUNTED
MINTERN PODCAST.
>> WE'VE ALSO BEEN HAVING THESE
AFTER HOURS CONCERTS EVERY ONCE
IN A WHILE LATELY AND WE'VE GOT
ONE COMING UP WITH THE BAND
MERCURY SAILLARD.
THIS IS GOING TO BE ON FRIDAY
OCTOBER TWENTY FIFTH FROM NINE
TO 10 P.M. SO AFTER THE
LIBRARY'S CLOSED AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY IN OUR FIRST
FLOOR LOBBY THIS HAVE BEEN VERY
POPULAR AND FUN FOR THIS ONE.
YPSILANTI BASED MERCURY SALAD
HAS A SIMPLE APPROACH TO MUSIC
WRITE TUNES THAT MAKE PEOPLE
GROOVE AND SING ALONG.
THEY'RE DREAMY FOLK AND FUNKY
ACOUSTIC SOUNDS WIN THEM FANS
EVERYWHERE AROUND MICHIGAN
MERCURY SALAD PERFORMS AT MANY
PREMIER MICHIGAN VENUES LIKE
MASH IN YPSILANTI BUS BLISS
FEST MUSIC FESTIVAL AND FOREST
TRAIL MUSIC FESTIVAL AFTER A
SUCCESSFUL FESTIVAL TOUR IN
TWENTY TWENTY ONE, THE BAND
RELEASED ITS THIRD ALBUM VOLUME
THREE IN APRIL TWENTY TWENTY
TWO VOLUME THREE WAS BEST LOCAL
ALBUM AND BEST OF WASHTENAW
TWENTY TWENTY TWO AND CURRENT
MAGAZINE.
>> THE LIBRARY WILL BE
PROVIDING A LIVE STREAM OF THIS
EVENT AND WE DO INTEND TO MAKE
IT AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE VIDEO
VIEWING SO IF YOU CAN'T MAKE IT
YOU CAN CHECK IT OUT LATER.
BUT A VIDEO PLAYER WILL APPEAR
ON THE EVENT PAGE ONE HOUR
BEFORE THE START OF THE EVENT.
AND WE'RE ALSO HAVING A TWO
COMMUNITY BUCKFAST THIS IS
GOING TO BE ON SUNDAY, NOVEMBER
3RD FROM 10 A.M. TO FIVE P.M.
AT THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN US FOR A
DAY CELEBRATING BOOKS AT A
COMMUNITY BOOK FEST FORMERLY
KNOWN AS CARRIE TOWN BOOK FEST.
THE HQ COMMUNITY BOOK FEST IS
THRILLED TO RETURN TO DOWNTOWN
ANN ARBOR FOR TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR BOOKSELLERS PUBLISHERS,
AUTHORS AND MORE WILL BE ON THE
VENDOR FLOOR FROM 10:00 P.M. TO
5:00 P.M.
AND VARIOUS
ACTIVITIES FOR ALL AGES SUCH AS
KEYNOTE AUTHOR TALKS HANDS-ON
CRAFTS FOR KIDS AND ADULTS,
STORYTIME AND DISCUSSION GROUPS
WILL TAKE PLACE THROUGHOUT THE
DAY.
ADDITIONALLY, THE FIFTH AVENUE
PRESS ANNUAL AUTHOR RECEPTION
WILL CELEBRATE BOOKS PUBLISHED
BY THE LIBRARY IN THE PAST YEAR
FOR ALL OF THE BOOK FEST EVENTS
ARE HAPPENING GO TO ADELGID
BOOK FAST OR JUST GIVE US A
CALL AND WE'LL GIVE YOU MORE
DETAILS.
>> SO AS USUAL WASHINGTON
LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND
DISABLED PATRONS ARE ENCOURAGED
TO GIVE US A CALL TO ORDER
BOOKS OR ANYTHING ELSE YOU NEED
AT SEVEN THREE FOUR THREE TWO
SEVEN FOUR TWO TWO FOUR.
YOU CAN ALSO EMAIL US AT W.L.
BE PD A DIALOG WE ENCOURAGE
EVERYONE TO SIGN UP FOR THE
BRAILLE AND AUDIO READING
DOWNLOAD SERVICE ALSO KNOWN AS
BAADE.
YOU CAN DOWNLOAD YOUR OWN AND
YOU JUST NEED TO VISIT
ANNALISE'S BARD ALOSI GOVEY OR
CALL US AND WE CAN HELP WITH
THE APPLICATION.
SOME BOOKS THAT HAVE RECENTLY
BEEN ADDED TO BARD IN THE LAST
MONTH WE HAVE HAPPINESS A GUIDE
TO DEVELOPING LIFE'S MOST
IMPORTANT SKILL BY MATSURA CARD
IN THIS GROUNDBREAKING BOOK
MATCH YOU WORK HARD MAKES A
PASSIONATE CASE FOR HAPPINESS
AS A GOAL THAT DESERVES AT
LEAST AS MUCH ENERGY AS ANY
OTHER IN OUR LIVES CAREER
SUCCESS.
HOW CAN WE POSSIBLY PLACE THESE
ABOVE TRUE AND LASTING
WELL-BEING DRAWING FROM WORKS
OF FICTION, POETRY, WESTERN
PHILOSOPHY, BUDDHIST BELIEFS,
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE, RICARD
WEAVES AN INSPIRATIONAL AND
FORWARD-LOOKING ACCOUNT OF HOW
WE CAN BEGIN TO RETHINK OUR
REALITIES IN A FAST MOVING
MODERN WORLD WITH ITS
RELATIVITY LESSONS AND
EXERCISES.
HAPPINESS IS AN ELOQUENT AND
STIMULATING GUIDE TO A HAPPIER
LIFE AND WE ALSO HAVE MAGIC
ENOUGH POEMS BY TERRORIST
STRINGFELLOW AN ELECTRIFYING
COLLECTION OF POEMS THAT TELLS
A UNIVERSAL TALE OF SURVIVAL
AND REVOLUTION THROUGH THE LENS
OF BLACK FEMINITY.
TARA STRINGFELLOW EMBRACES
COMPLEXITY GRAPPLING WITH THE
SOMETIMES PAINFUL, SOMETIMES
WONDERFUL WAY TO CONFLICTING
THINGS CAN BE TRUE AT THE SAME
TIME HOW IT'S POSSIBLE TO HAVE
A STRONG VOICE AND ALSO FEEL
SILENCED TO BE LOYAL TO THINGS
AND PEOPLE THAT BETRAY US TO
BURN HOT WITH RAGE AS WE DO
WITH LOVE.
EACH POEM ASKS HOW WE CAN HEAL
AND SUSTAIN RELATIONSHIPS WITH
PEOPLE SYSTEMS AND OURSELVES,
HOW TO REACH FOR THE KIND
OF REAL LOVE THAT ALLOWS FOR
THE TRUTH OF ANGER,
DISAPPOINTMENT AND GRIEF.
UNAPOLOGETIC, UNAFRAID AND
GLORIOUS AND ITS NUANCE.
THIS COLLECTION ARGUES THAT
WHEN IT COMES TO LIVING IN OUR
FULL HUMANITY WE AND WE ARE
MAGIC ENOUGH AND THAT IS ALL
THAT I HAVE FOR YOU TODAY.
>> IT DOES ANYBODY HAVE IT ANY
LIBRARY RELATED QUESTIONS FOR
ME OR ANY QUESTIONS?
KATIE, I JUST HAVE A COMMENT.
FIRST OF ALL, THANK YOU FOR
ENDING IT AND WE ARE MAGIC
ENOUGH I THINK THAT SUPER
AWESOME AND WE ARE INDEED AS
FAR AS THE THE LIKE AFTER HOURS
CONCERTS HOW LATE DO THEY GO?
>> THEY GO TILL 10:00 PM
USUALLY IT'S USUALLY NINE TO
TEN THAT'S WHEN AT LEAST THERE
MIGHT BE THEY MIGHT BE VARYING
HOURS BUT I THINK THAT'S
TYPICAL.
>> GOT IT.
THANK YOU AND KNOW THEIR
QUESTIONS FOR KATIE.
>> ALL RIGHTY THEN.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU ALL SO MUCH.
GOOD TO SEE EVERYBODY AND HAVE
A GREAT DAY.
YEAH.
THANK YOU KATIE.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE OUR REPORT FROM
THE DISABILITY NETWORK
WASHTENAW, MONROE AND
LIVINGSTON WITH ANDREA HENRY.
>> ANDREA, GOOD AFTERNOON.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO HIGHLIGHT A
COUPLE OF UPCOMING EVENTS.
I CAN'T BELIEVE I'M ABOUT TO
TALK ABOUT NOVEMBER AND
DECEMBER ALREADY BUT HERE WE GO
ON SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 9TH WE
HAVE A COMMUNITY HARVEST
GATHERING AT OUR ANN ARBOR
LOCATION.
SO THAT IS BASICALLY AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE COMMUNITY
TO COME TOGETHER FOR SOME FREE
FOOD AND FESTIVITIES.
THERE WILL ALSO BE AN
OPPORTUNITY AT THAT GATHERING
FOR FOLKS TO SHOP A LOCAL
DISABLED ARTIST MARKET FOR THE
HOLIDAY SEASON.
THE HARVEST GATHERING ITSELF
WILL TAKE PLACE FROM 12:00 TO
2:00 P.M. AND THE MARKET WILL
BE OPEN FROM 1:00 P.M. TO FOUR
P.M. IF YOU'RE NOT ABLE TO JOIN
US THAT DAY, WE DO HAVE A
SECOND OPPORTUNITY COMING UP IN
DECEMBER AND DECEMBER ON
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 7TH TO OTHO
SHOP THE HOLIDAY MARKET FROM
ONE TO FOUR P.M. ALSO AT OUR
ANN ARBOR LOCATION AND THAT'S
ALL I HAVE TODAY SHORT AND
SWEET BUT JUST WANT TO BRING
THOSE UPCOMING EVENTS TO
EVERYONE'S ATTENTION.
>> A THANK YOU SO MUCH, ANDREA
AND THANK YOU TO THE DISABILITY
NETWORK WASHTENAW MONROE
LIVINGSTON FOR ALL THE GREAT
THINGS THAT THEY CONTINUE TO
GIVE AND PROVIDE FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
I JUST WANTED TO POINT OUT TO
FOLKS IN TERMS OF DISABILITY
VOTING NETWORK THEY DID HAVE A
RECENT AWESOME FUNDRAISING
EVENT AT MONTEREY BREWING LAST
WEEK AND I HAD AN OPPORTUNITY
TO ATTEND THAT.
THAT WAS A LOT MORE FUN.
SO THANK YOU TO THE DISABILITY
NETWORK FOR HOSTING THAT.
I THOUGHT IT WAS BEAUTIFUL
WEATHER, REALLY GREAT CHANCE TO
KIND OF COME OUT AND SUPPORT
YOU GUYS AND I WAS GLAD TO SEE
THAT THERE WAS GOOD ATTENDANCE
.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ABSOLUTELY WONDERFUL.
NEXT WE HAVE THE PARTNERS AND
ACCESS SUBCOMMITTEE REPORT WITH
LARRY KEELER LARRY HARLOW AND I
LIKE I ENJOYED BOTH
PRESENTATIONS.
I ESPECIALLY THE FIRST ONE I
KNOW A LOT ABOUT LIFT VEHICLES
AND NOW I'VE GOT I KNOW SOME
MORE OK SO WE DIDN'T DO A WHOLE
LOT.
IT WAS JUST ME AND COMMISSIONER
AND BAUER AND WE DID TALK ABOUT
WE REACHED OUT TO THE
DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING AND
DEVELOPMENT AND THERE ARE
EVENTUALLY GOING TO TAKE CARE
OF THE THIRD STREET STAIR THE
STEPS ON THIRD STREET ACROSS
FROM THE CHURCH THE LONG SIDE
AND ACROSS FROM THE CHURCH THE
THE LUTHERAN CHURCH DOWN THERE
WE WERE TALKING ABOUT AND SO
WE'VE REACHED OUT WE'RE GETTING
EMAILS AND THE PLANS ARE TO
EVENTUALLY TAKE CARE OF THAT.
BUT HOPEFULLY WE WANT TO STEP
THAT UP AND COMMISSIONER AND
CAMPBELL, WE'RE SUPPOSED TO
LOOK TO SIGNAGE BEING ABLE TO
MAYBE PUT OUR SIGNS UP IN
WINDOWS DOWNTOWN BUT HASN'T
GOTTEN VERY FAR ON THAT.
AND MY ONLY OTHER THING IS THAT
WE WANT TO INVITE SOME OTHER
COMMISSIONERS FOR THE MICHIGAN
STATE THEATER UPDATES AND FOR
TO SEE IF ANYTHING ELSE HAS
HAPPENED WITH THE
PARKING IN
THE ACCESSIBLE PARKING IN THE
CITY AND THAT'S IT FOR THAT
NODDED THANK YOU, LARRY.
>> I APPRECIATE THE SUPPORT SO
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
DO DO APPRECIATE IT AND YEAH
ABSOLUTELY.
IF THERE ARE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS THAT ARE
INTERESTED IN JOINING US AS I
FOLLOW UP WITH THE MARQUEE ARTS
FORMERLY MICHIGAN AND STATE
THEATER FOUNDATION FOR THE
DISABILITY FILM SERIES THAT'S
GOING TO BE KICKING OFF IN
JANUARY, PLEASE LET MYSELF FOR
KENNEDY SO WE CAN ADD YOU TO
THAT THAT EMAIL LIST AS I
FOLLOW UP WITH THEM.
SO YOU CAN BE PRESENT AT THAT
NEXT MEETING WHEN I FOLLOW UP.
AND THEN SECONDLY, THANK YOU
BOTH, LARRY IN THE HERE FOR ALL
YOUR WORK WITH ACCESSIBLE
PARKING IF THERE IS A POINT
OF CONTACT THAT YOU NEED
ASSISTANCE WITH YOU ON THAT
REGARD, PLEASE PLEASE DON'T
HESITATE TO REACH OUT.
BUT THANK YOU FOR FOR THAT
EFFORT, LARRY.
APPRECIATE ANTHONY .
OH, OH HI.
>> I JUST I THINK YOU ALREADY
ELEVATED ME.
I GOT KICKED OUT.
I THOUGHT I WAS IN THE WAITING
ROOM BUT THANK YOU.
>> OK, VICE CHAIRMAN WHERE YOU
GO TO I WAS JUST SAYING HOW TO
YOU GUYS SOME OF YOU PEOPLE AT
THE NEXT MEETING SET GIVE THEM
UP AT FIVE O'CLOCK.
ALL RIGHT.
SOUNDS GOOD.
COOL.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
NEXT, I DON'T BELIEVE
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS IS ON FOR
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
KENNEDY IS CORRECT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> YEAH, I KNOW THAT SHE CAME
TO MAKE A LIFE SHE CAME INTO
OUR MEETING LAST I THOUGHT SHE
HAD SOMETHING TO SAY BUT SHE
DIDN'T MAKE IT SO YEAH.
>> YEAH SHE IT'S OK.
IT'S OK.
SHE LET ME KNOW AHEAD OF TIME
THAT SHE MIGHT BE LATE SO NO
WORRIES.
ALL RIGHT.
SO NEXT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON
AND LARRY DON'T GO ANYWHERE.
COME ON DOWN.
WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT
RECRUITING ACTIVITY.
>> OH I THOUGHT ABOUT THAT.
YEAH WE WE HAVE WE HAD NOTHING
GO ON THIS MONTH FOR RECRUITING
BUT WE DO HAVE IF EVERYTHING
FALLS RIGHT WE WILL HAVE A
CANDIDATE TO
LISTEN TO AT OUR
NEXT MEETING.
>> THEY WERE SUPPOSED TO AT
THIS MEETING BUT APPARENTLY
THERE WAS ISSUES ABOUT THEM
BEING HERE THAT MONTH SO WE
SHOULD HOPEFULLY GET THEM NEXT
MONTH AND WE'LL LISTEN TO THEM
AND MAYBE APPROVE THEM OR DO
OUR THING.
YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
I KNOW THAT.
YEAH, THERE WAS SOME GOOD
INTEREST IN THE COMMISSION
COMMISSIONERS IN TERMS
OF APPLICATIONS.
I JUST THINK THAT ONE OF THE
APPLICANTS THAT WE'RE GOING TO
INTRODUCE I THINK THAT THEY
JUST DECIDED THAT THEY WANTED A
LITTLE BIT MORE TIME TO KIND
MAKE THE DECISION, SEE IF IT
WAS A GOOD FIT AND SO I THINK
WE'LL HAVE THEM PRESENT
THEMSELVES AT THE NOVEMBER
MEETING.
>> IS THAT CORRECT?
KENNEDY YES, THAT'S CORRECT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OK, AND WE DID THAT INTERVIEW
THE OTHER TWO CANDIDATES SO
THAT'S SOMETHING FOR US TO
CONSIDER THAT YEAH.
YEAH, THAT'S CORRECT.
WE DO HAVE TWO PENDING
APPLICATIONS RIGHT NOW.
RIGHT NOW THOUGH THERE IS ONLY
ONE VACANCY WHICH IS WHY THOSE
APPLICANTS HAVE YET TO BE
REACHED OUT TO IN TERMS OF YOU
KNOW, GOING FORWARD THE
PROCESS.
WE CAN DEFINITELY INTERVIEW
THEM, LARRY.
BUT IN TERMS OF GOING FORWARD,
WE HAVE TO MAKE SURE THAT, YOU
KNOW, YOU SEATS ARE AVAILABLE
FOR THEIR APPOINTMENT.
CORRECT.
I THINK WE SHOULD CASE THIS
CANDIDATE, FOR EXAMPLE, DECIDES
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO DO IT OR
ANY NUMBER OF THINGS I THINK WE
SHOULD.
OK, OK, ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
LET'S SEE NEXT WE HAVE THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
UPDATE WITH LARRY KEELER.
>> THAT'LL BE ME AGAIN.
OK, WE HAD WE HAD OUR MEETING
LAST MONTH AND IT WAS THE AP
OF LAST MONTH AND WE ALSO I
HAVE ONE THIS EVENING AT SEVEN
AND LAST AT OUR LAST MEETING WE
HAD AND PUBLIC COMMENT THERE
WERE SOME CONCERNS ABOUT
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY DOWNTOWN AND
ALSO PEOPLE FLAG THE YIELD DOWN
THERE AND THEN WE HAD SOME JUST
SOME UPDATES ABOUT OUR STREETS
BEING WORKED ON LIKE BIRDWOOD
PAGE AND STILL REIDSVILLE AND
PAULINE ARE STILL BEING WORKED
ON MAIDEN LANE STATE NORTH YOU
ARE GOING TO BE WORKED ON
PRETTY SOON AND THEN EILEEN
COLLINS STREET, THEY'RE DOING A
MAJOR CONSTRUCTION WATER WATER
LINE CONSTRUCTION AND ALL KINDS
OF THINGS AND SEVERAL BLOCKS
FROM SOME OF THE DOWNTOWN ARE
BEING RENOVATED AND THEY'RE
GOING TO PUT A LOT OF THEY'RE
GOING TO RAISED INTERSECTIONS
IN AND SO THERE'S REAL
SIDEWALKS ARE RAISED RIGHT AT
THE INTERSECTION OF THE
CROSSWALKS AND THESE ARE
DESIGNED TO HELP PEOPLE SLOW
DOWN AND THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT
SOME OF THE SOME OF THE
CROSSWALKS AND SOME OF THE BIKE
LANES AND IN PARTICULAR
INTERFERING WITH WAYS TO
REMOVAL AND OTHER PEOPLE ARE
PUTTING THEIR TRASH CANS OUT
AND OF COURSE THE ONLY PLACE TO
PUT THEM IN SOME PLACES IS IN
THE BIKE LANES AND THAT'S
THAT'S AN ISSUE AND THAT'S
ABOUT IT.
>> AND THERE IS ONE OTHER THING
THAT DIDN'T GO WITH THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION BUT
IT OBVIOUSLY IT WAS MENTIONED A
LITTLE BIT BUT IN AUGUST THE
BUS ROUTES HAVE BEEN THE TIMES
HAVE BEEN EXTENDED.
A FEW ROUTES HAVE BEEN CHANGED.
SO YOU THINK ABOUT THAT WHEN
YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT HOW LATE
THE CONCERT WENT TO YOU COULD
ALMOST CATCH A BUS AFTER THE
AFTER THE CONCERT DOWNTOWN.
>> IT'S DOWNTOWN AT THE LIBRARY
BECAUSE THEY'VE ALL RUN PAST
SOME OF THEM RUN PAST NOW.
>> WELL, YEAH, THAT WAS THING
IT'S FUNNY YOU MENTION THAT
COMMISSIONER KEELER BECAUSE
THAT WAS ACTUALLY MY INTENT WAS
TO TO FIND OUT HOW LATE THEY
WENT SO THAT IF VIEWERS WERE
WATCHING TODAY AND NEEDED TO
CATCH A BUS THEY COULD KNOW
WHEN THAT WAS GOING TO BE
CONCLUDING SAID THAT THEY COULD
USE THE BUS THEY NEEDED TO.
>> SO GOOD POINT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I APOLOGIZE.
DOES THAT CONCLUDE YOUR REPORT?
>> OH NO.
THAT CONCLUDES MY REPORT.
THEY HAVE A LOT TO REPORT BUT
YES, IT CONCLUDES ALREADY.
>> I HAVE ANOTHER ONE TONIGHT
SO YOU CAN WATCH IT ON AND IF
YOU CAN'T IF YOU WANT TO, YOU
CAN WATCH IT ON CNN TONIGHT AT
SEVEN TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
ALL READY.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU FOR ALL THE WORK THAT
YOU DO IN THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION IS VERY IMPORTANT
AND DEFINITELY NEEDED ON NEXT
WE HAVE THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL
FOR DISABILITY CONCERNS MEETING
UPDATE WITH COMMISSIONER
MATTHEW SOLOMON.
>> MATTHEW, GOOD EVENING.
HI.
SO THE COUNCIL MET LAST TUESDAY
THE 8TH.
WE HAD A FAIRLY FULL AGENDA.
FORTUNATELY COMMISSIONER MUSAC
ALREADY FORWARDED THE
COMMISSION THE FULL NOTES ON
LINKS ON COMMITTEE ON THE
MEETING IN CASE ANYONE WANTS TO
GET A FULLER ACCOUNT.
I'LL JUST RUN THROUGH A QUICK
HIGHLIGHTS OF WHAT WAS
COVERED .
>> FIRST WAS THE INTRODUCTION
OF A NEW COACHER MELISSA STRUCK
TREBITSCH WHO IS AT THE UM
FLINT CAMPUS PROFESSOR
OF SPECIAL EDUCATION WILL BE
CO-CHAIR AND MUCH OF THE
MEETING WAS TAKEN UP BY
PRESENTATION BY WINNER MCCLEOD
WHO GAVE A DETAILED
PRESENTATION ON ACCESSIBLE
VOTING WHICH WAS EXTREMELY
INFORMATIVE.
THERO AND YOU CAN REFER TO THE
LINKS FOR THE COMPLETE
PRESENTATION IF THAT'S
OF INTEREST TO ANNOUNCEMENTS
OF UPCOMING EVENTS I'D LIKE TO
BRING TO THE ATTENTION OF THE
COMMISSION.
ONE IS AN EVENT CALLED TOWARD
A.H. ABLEIST ACADEMY IS GOING
TO TAKE PLACE OCTOBER THE
TWENTY THIRTY FIRST AND THE
OTHER EVENT IS THE FIFTH ANNUAL
DISABILITY RESEARCH SYMPOSIUM
HOSTED BY THE CENTER FOR
DISABILITY HEALTH AND WELLNESS
.
AGAIN LINKS PROVIDED IN THE
MATERIALS THAT COMMISSIONER
MUSAK FORWARDED.
THAT IS MY SUMMARY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON.
REALLY, REALLY EXCITING THINGS
ESPECIALLY WITH, YOU KNOW,
ACCESSIBLE VOTING, VERY
EXCITING.
THANK YOU FOR SHARING THAT.
AND THEN ALSO THE DISABILITY
RESEARCH SYMPOSIUM SOUNDS
EXTREMELY INFORMATIVE AND
EXCITING SO I HOPE THAT ALL
OF US CAN CAN MAKE SOME
OF THOSE EVENTS.
ABSOLUTELY.
AND THEN OF COURSE THE ANTI
ABLEISM EVENT I THINK YOU KNOW
SOMETHING THAT HOPEFULLY OUR
COMMISSION CAN BE INTERESTED IN
AS WELL.
AND SO THANK YOU, MATTHEW, FOR
ALL OF YOUR WORK WITH THE
UNIVERSITY COUNCIL FOR
DISABILITY CONCERNS.
WE REALLY APPRECIATE IT AND
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE NEW VICE
CHAIRMAN AS WELL BEING NAMED IN
THERE AND THANK YOU AGAIN FOR
ALL OF YOUR WORK.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE ORGANIZATIONAL
EQUITY REPORTS WITH TRACY BIRD.
>> TRACY, THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
ALL RIGHT.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
>> THANK YOU.
JUST A COUPLE OF UPDATES.
JUST WANTED TO LET YOU KNOW
THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE A TWO
PART HERE THAT WITH THE CLERK'S
OFFICE THE LAST FEW MONTHS
WE'VE COMPLETED TWENTY TWO
POLLING POLLING PLACE
ACCESSIBILITY CHECKS THE FIVE
ALSO OF THE DROPBOX'S AND IN
CONJUNCTION WITH THAT I WILL BE
WORKING WITH A DISABILITY POWER
WHO'S COMING IN TO WASH COUNTY
ANN ARBOR THIS ELECTION SEASON
TO ALSO DO CHECKS AND I AM
HAPPY TO SEND LINKS TO YOU ALL
BUT THEY ARE DOING SOME
TRAINING THIS IN-PERSON
TRAINING THIS FRIDAY AS WELL AS
AN ONLINE TRAINING.
SO IF ANYBODY IS INTERESTED IN
VOLUNTEERING WITH DETROIT
DISABILITY POWER THIS ELECTION
SEASON, I CAN OF COURSE SEND
SOME LINKS TO YOU.
I ALSO WANTED TO REMIND
EVERYBODY THAT THERE THAT AARP
IS DOING A WALK IT NEXT
WEDNESDAY THE YEP.
THAT WOULD BE NO I'M SORRY THE
TWENTY THIRD IS THE WALK OUT IT
I GOT TOO MANY THINGS OPEN HERE
.
LET'S TAKE A LOOK.
YEP.
FROM I'M SORRY IT'S THURSDAY
THE TWENTY FOURTH EXCUSE ME
I'VE GOT SOMETHING ELSE ON THE
TWENTY THIRD TO TELL YOU ABOUT
THURSDAY THE TWENTY FOURTH FROM
TWELVE TO FIVE THEY'RE GOING TO
BE MEETING AT THE END OF OUR
DISTRICT LIBRARY.
I DON'T KNOW IF THEY'RE STILL
SPOTS AVAILABLE BUT I CAN ALSO
I THINK A LINK WENT OUT LAST
WEEK TO SIGN UP FOR THAT IF YOU
WERE INTERESTED.
THERE'S ALSO I JUST HAPPENED TO
SEE
WALKING THROUGH TOWN TODAY
THERE IS A PLANNING MEETING A
CITY PLANNING MEETING NEXT
THURSDAY NEXT WEDNESDAY I'M
GETTING MY DAYS MIXED UP THE
TWENTY THIRD FROM 11:00 A.M. TO
SEVEN P.M. AT THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY.
SO I WOULD RECOMMEND IF YOU
WANT YOUR VOICES HEARD TO GO TO
THAT AS WELL.
ALWAYS OPPORTUNITIES TO TO TO
ADVOCATE FOR YOURSELF AND
OTHERS.
AND THEN THE LAST THING IS THE
US ACCESS BOARD IS SEEKING
PUBLIC COMMENT FOR A PROPOSED
RULEMAKING FOR EV OR ELECTRIC
VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS.
>> I IF YOU WANT IF YOU THINK
THAT IT'S APPROPRIATE I'D BE
HAPPY TO SEND THE EMAIL FROM
THE US ACCESS BOARDS OF ANYBODY
WANTED TO PUT IN ANY TYPE
OF PUBLIC COMMENT THEY CAN DO
SO AND ZACH YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY
CORRECT.
IT WAS A WONDERFUL I DIDN'T SEE
THERE I ATTENDED EARLY THE THE
FUNDRAISER AT FOR DISABILITY
NETWORK.
I GOT A T SHIRT I FINALLY GOT
MY TIE DYED T SHIRT AND I WAS
HAPPY TO BE ABLE TO PARTICIPATE
WITH THE SUMMIT THEY HAD THIS
AFTERNOON AS WELL.
SO I WANTED TO THINK DISABILITY
NETWORK FOR ALL OF THE
WONDERFUL ADVOCACY WORK AND
RESOURCES THEY PROVIDE TO THE
COMMUNITY AND THAT'S ALL I'VE
GOT.
>> WONDERFUL.
THANK YOU, TRACY.
A LOT GOING ON.
MY GOODNESS.
IN THE SPACE OF DISABILITY AND
ACCESSIBILITY.
AND SO THANK YOU JUST FOR ALL
OF YOUR WORK OF KEEPING UP
KEEPING US INFORMED ON ALL THE
AMAZING EVENTS.
YEAH, I'M VERY INTERESTED IN
THAT PLANNING MEETING.
I THINK THAT COULD BE VERY
BENEFICIAL FOR COMMISSIONERS'.
SO YEAH, IF YOU IF YOU DON'T
MIND FORWARDING THAT THAT WOULD
BE GREAT AT THE BRITISH LIBRARY
AND THEN YEAH.
THANK HER FOR SENDING YOU KNOW
ALL THE OTHER INFORMATION AS
WELL AND THEN HOPEFULLY IF ANY
OF THE COMMISSIONERS ARE
INTERESTED IN ANY OF THE
ADDITIONAL EVENTS THEY CAN
REACH OUT AND THEN SOMEHOW ALL
OF US TOGETHER CAN GET THEM THE
INFORMATION.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND YES,
I'M SORRY I MISSED YOU
OCTOBER 10TH AT THE AT THE
BREWERY BUT YES I GREEK VERY,
VERY GREAT EVENT REALLY ENJOYED
THAT AND HOPEFULLY MODIFIER CAN
DO IT AGAIN ALSO THANK YOU FOR
LETTING US KNOW TRACY THAT THAT
THE EVENT EARLIER TODAY WAS WAS
TAKING PLACE.
HOPEFULLY THE COMMISSIONERS CAN
CAN ALSO ATTEND THAT NEXT YEAR.
I THINK IT WOULD BE THAT WOULD
BE BENEFICIAL AS WELL SO JUST
THANK YOU.
HOPEFULLY IT WAS BENEFICIAL
HOPEFULLY A LOT OF GOOD
DECISION MAKERS WERE IN THE
ROOM AND AND HOPEFULLY THE
COMMISSION CAN HAVE A SEAT AT
THAT EVENT NEXT YEAR.
ALL RIGHT.
WONDERFUL.
>> OK, LET ME GET MY PLACE HERE
PARDON ME NEXT WE HAVE THE CITY
PERSONNEL REPORT WITH KENNEDY
EVERYONE SO FAR THIS MONTH I
CURRENTLY HAVE NO PERSONAL
UPDATES THAT HAPPEN AT THE
CITY.
I WOULD LIKE TO JUST SHOUT OUT
AND MAKE A NOTE THAT YOU
HAVEN'T REGISTERED TO VOTE
ALREADY.
YOU STILL CAN AND PLEASE MAKE
SURE THAT IF YOU DON'T ABSENTEE
BALLOTS THAT YOU ARE RETURNING
BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE AND THAT'S
ALL I HAVE.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
KENNEDY.
YES, ABSOLUTELY.
FOLKS, IF THERE IS ANY REASON
OR INFORMATION THAT YOU NEED ON
REGISTERING TO VOTE OR KNOWING
HOW TO GET YOUR ABSENTEE BALLOT
OR WHERE YOUR BALLOT DROPBOX
IS, PLEASE DO NOT HESITATE TO
REACH TO BE ABLE TO CONTRIBUTE
AND DO YOUR CIVIC DUTY WITH
THAT WITH THE CHAIR REPORT
OTHERS HAVE MENTIONED THIS IN
TODAY'S MEETING BUT I DID
ATTEND THE THE EVENT FOR
DISABILITY NETWORK ON
OCTOBER 10TH.
I THOUGHT IT WAS REALLY GREAT.
I HOPE THEY DO ANOTHER EVENT
LIKE THAT NEXT YEAR WHICH IS
GOOD TO SUPPORT OUR BROTHERS
AND SISTERS.
THE DISABILITY NETWORK
WASHTENAW ALMENDRAL LEVINGSTON
ALL THE WORK THAT THEY'RE DOING
AND I'M VERY EXCITED ABOUT
ABOUT THAT ALSO I DID WANT TO
MENTION TOO THAT I WANTED TO
JUST RELAY SOME SOME GOOD
NEWS ON BEHALF OF THE
COMMISSION AND I THINK OUR
COMMUNITY BUT DO NOT WANT TO
STEAL ANY THUNDER THERE BUT
JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT I'M I'M
IT ORDINANCE HAS BEEN APPROVED
IN THE CITY AND THINGS ARE
MOVING FORWARD WITH THAT BUT I
ALSO WANTED TO MENTION TO THE
COMMISSION THAT IF YOU DO FEEL
PASSIONATE THEN YOU DO WANT TO
SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF THAT.
PLEASE FEEL FREE.
I KNOW THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE
ANOTHER OPPORTUNITY TO DO SO ON
OCTOBER TWENTY FIRST AND I HOPE
THAT THE COMMISSION CAN SHOW
SOME SUPPORT NOT ONLY ON THIS
VERY IMPORTANT ISSUE OF THE
RIGHT TO SIT ORDINANCE WITHIN
OUR CITY BUT JUST IN TERMS
OF ACCESSIBILITY AND REASONABLE
ACCOMMODATIONS WITHIN
BUSINESSES AND THEN CONCERNING
EMPLOYERS WHO NEED REASONABLE
ACCOMMODATIONS IN OUR CITY.
BEYOND THAT, THAT'S ALL I HAVE
FOR THE CHAIR REPORT AT THIS
TIME.
NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE FORWARD
TO THE CITY COUNCIL UPDATE WITH
COUNCIL LIAISON ONE.
>> THANK YOU CHAIR DAMON I
EVERYONE I AM NOT ON CAMERA AND
ACTUALLY HELPING TO PICK MY SON
SO YEAH.
RIGHT TO SIT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH TO CHAIR
DAMON FOR COMING AND ANY OTHERS
WHO MAY HAVE CALLED IN OR
SUPPORTED IT DID IT PASS FIRST
READING ON OCTOBER SEVEN AND
DURING THE LAST FEW WEEKS WHEN
I POSTPONED IT I MET WITH BOTH
LABOR UNIONS AND I MET WITH
SOME BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS AND
THERE WERE SOME CONCERNS ON THE
BUSINESS SIDE BUT I I JUST KEPT
REINFORCE SAYING THAT, YOU
KNOW, THIS IS THIS IS ABOUT
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION.
IT'S A DISABILITY JUSTICE ISSUE
AND IF THERE ARE ISSUES THAT WE
SEE AFTER IMPLEMENTATION THEN
IT COULD BE REVISITED AS YOUR
AND SHARED ON OCTOBER 20.
FIRST IS OUR NEXT CITY COUNCIL
MEETING AND IT WILL BE THE
SECOND DAY BECAUSE THIS IS
ACTUALLY A CHANGE OF LAW THAT
HAS TO GO THROUGH TO READINGS
AND THERE WILL ALSO BE A PUBLIC
SO THERE'LL BE AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
COME AND SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF IT
OR SPEAK NOT IN SUPPORT OF IT.
SO ANYONE WHO IS ABLE TO COME
AND IF YOU SUPPORT THIS PLEASE
DO TOM.
>> THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
SO ONE THING ANOTHER THING THAT
I WANT TO UPDATE YOU ON IS I
WENT TO A DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY WORK SESSION LAST
NIGHT AND THE THE DDA IS WHAT
MANAGES OUR DOWNTOWN AND HELPS
TO MANAGE PARKING REVENUE FROM
PARKING AND THEY JUST COMPLETED
AN AT AN ADA ACCESS AUDIT
OF THEIR CURBS PARKING
MANAGEMENT WHICH WAS REALLY
INTERESTING TO HEAR THOSE
RESULTS AND WHAT I LEARNED IS
THAT THERE'S NEW FEDERAL
REGULATIONS COMING DOWN IN
REGARDS TO ACCESSIBLE PARKING
SPOTS.
HOW MANY NEED TO BE IN A CITY
BASED UPON RADIUS BASED UPON
PER BLOCK AND SO THEY WILL BE
THERE STARTING TO IMPLEMENT
THOSE NEW STANDARDS OVER THE
NEXT YEAR AND THAT WILL INCLUDE
ADDING ONE HUNDRED NEW
ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPOTS TO THE
CITY WHICH IS GREAT.
>> THANK YOU TRACY FOR
MENTIONING THE ACCESS AUDIT
WICHITA DISABILITY POWER.
I'M COORDINATING THAT WITH THE
SCHOOL SOCIAL WORK AFTER
LEAVING DDP IS THE DEPUTY
DIRECTOR AND IN MY NEW ROLE AS
PROFESSOR AS I'VE COORDINATED
BETWEEN THE SCHOOL AND DP AND
WE DO BADLY NEED VOLUNTEERS WE
HAVE ABOUT 20 RIGHT NOW BUT WE
REALLY DO NEED VOLUNTEERS FOR
ELECTION DAY SPECIFICALLY.
SO WHAT YOU WOULD HELP TO DO IS
GO TO DIFFERENT POLLING
LOCATIONS AND WASHTENAW AND
AUDIT THEM ON ELECTION DAY AND
I WILL SHARE THE LINK FOR THE
TRAINING THAT'S HAPPENING TODAY
.
WE'RE HAVING A VIRTUAL ONE NEXT
MONDAY WITH KENNEDY SO THAT
KENNEDY IF YOU CAN DISTRIBUTE
THAT TO THE COMMISSION THAT
WOULD BE GREAT AND IF YOU CAN
ACCOMPLISH IT WITH A AND THEN
ALSO THE AARP WALK, I'M LOOKING
FORWARD TO STOPPING BY AND AND
JOINING THAT AND I ENCOURAGE
OTHERS TO BE ABLE TO ATTEND AS
WELL AS YOU CAN AND THAT'S IT
FOR ME.
AWESOME.
I MEAN A LOT OF GREAT WORK
THERE.
COUNCIL MEMBER AND SO THANK YOU
SO MUCH.
I MEAN A LOT OF GREAT THINGS
AND YOU KNOW, I'M REALLY
EXCITED TO HEAR OF YOU KNOW
WHAT WHAT YOU'RE DOING AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND THEN
YOU KNOW THE PARTNERSHIP WITH
THE DETROIT DISABILITY POWER
FOR THE AUDIENCE.
I THINK THAT'S THAT'S
OUTSTANDING AND YES, YOU KNOW,
IF IF ANY OF US YOU KNOW, AS
COMMISSIONERS HAVE THE TIME AND
THE CAPACITY TO VOLUNTEER AND
ASSIST WITH THESE AUDITS, I
THINK THAT THAT THAT IT'S VERY
PARAMOUNT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT THESE POLLING PLACES ARE
ACCESSIBLE FOR ALL VOTERS SO
THAT EVERY VOTE CAN BE COUNTED.
EVERY VOTER CAN DO THEIR CIVIC
DUTY AND VOTE WHEN THE TIME IS
NEEDED.
THANK THANK YOU FOR YOUR
DEMAND.
AND JUST A QUICK ADD WE'LL BE
COLLECTING DATA FROM THESE
AUDITS AND I'M WORKING WITH THE
UNIVERSITY TO HELP GENERATE A
REPORT THE PREVIOUS REPORT FROM
THE TWENTY TWENTY TWO ELECTIONS
WAS CONDUCTED BY
THE CARTER
CENTER IN CONJUNCTION WITH DDP
AND NOW WE ARE WE'RE HOPING TO
DO IT FOR THIS ELECTION AND
WE'LL BE PROVIDING THAT REPORT
TO CITY COUNCIL OF THE STATE
AND WASHTENAW COUNTY IS ONE
OF THE MANY COUNTIES THAT DDP
HAS EXPANDED THEIR AUDIT
PROJECT TO AND THIS IS THE
LARGEST ACCESSIBLE
ACCESSIBILITY AUDIT OF ALL
LOCATIONS THAT'S EVER OCCURRED
IN HISTORY.
SO IT'S IT'S A GREAT THING TO
GET INVOLVED IN.
>> WOW, THAT'S AMAZING.
YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO OLD BUSINESS.
DO YOU HAVE ANY OLD BUSINESS AT
THIS TIME?
CURRENTLY WE HAVE NO OLD
BUSINESS.
THANK YOU, CANDY.
NEW BUSINESS.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY NEW BUSINESS
AT THIS TIME?
CURRENTLY WE HAVE NONE.
IS THERE ANY COMMISSIONER WITH
NEW BUSINESS FOR THE REGION
SEEING THAT WE HAVE NO NEW
BUSINESS?
I THANK YOU, CANDY.
ANY COMMUNICATIONS AS FAR AS
THE AGENDA?
THERE ARE NO COMMUNICATIONS.
ARE THERE ANY COMMISSIONERS OR
ANY COMMUNICATIONS AT THIS TIME
FOR THE COMMISSION SAYING NONE?
>> WE HAVE NO COMMUNICATIONS.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT BEING SAID, IT IS NOW
FIVE OR FIVE HERE ON WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 16TH I'D LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN THE MEETING
IF THERE ARE NO ANY ADDITIONAL
POINTS.
SO IS IS THERE A MOVE TO DURING
THE MEETING SO MOVED ALL RIGHT.
AS ANITA MAKES A MOTION, IS
THERE A SECOND FLOOR SECOND?
THANK YOU.
SECONDED ALL IN FAVOR
OF ADJOURNING TODAY
OCTOBER 16TH PLEASE.
>> I NEED AND SAY I I I THANK
YOU EVERYONE.
MEETING IS ADJOURNED TODAY.
I REALLY I HAVE TO SAY I MISS
ALL OF YOU.
I HOPE AT SOME POINT WE CAN SEE
EACH OTHER IN PERSON SOMEHOW
AND HAVE A CHANCE TO GET A
CHANCE TO TO CELEBRATE SOMETIME
IN THE HOLIDAYS.
I'LL TALK TO KENNEDY ABOUT
POSSIBLY WHAT THAT COULD BE BUT
I THINK I WOULD LOVE TO DO A
COMMISSION HOLIDAY GET TOGETHER
AT SOME POINT IF ALL OF YOU ARE
OPEN TO THAT.
SO